In AD 129, with funding from the mayor of the city, Gaius Julius Asper Pansinianus, Antioch built a new City Gate—a triple-bayed arch with decoration carved in relief. Although a wide variety of decorative motifs was available to the City Gate’s designers, they consciously chose to emulate the decoration of the triumphal-arch gateway (propylon) to the Imperial Cult Sanctuary. Motifs found on both gates include winged figures holding garlands, fantastic creatures, and weapons. Inscriptions show that the propylon was dedicated to Rome’s first emperor, Augustus, and the City Gate to the current emperor, Hadrian, and his wife, Sabina. This decorative emulation was a political statement that evoked a favorable comparison between Hadrian and his predecessor Augustus. The dedication of the City Gate coincided with Hadrian’s visit to Antioch.

The Michigan team excavated the remains of the City Gate during the later part of the summer of 1924. The structure had completely collapsed over the centuries, and only a small percentage of its stones remained at the site at the time of excavation. Many of the missing stones had been removed and reused in the construction of buildings in the nearby town of Yalvaç.

REMAINS OF THE CITY GATE
The remains of the foundations of four piers indicate that the City Gate had three arched bays. A wide variety of architectural fragments were found. Some fragments had carved decoration, such as the hippocamp (sea horse) shown here. Bronze letters were attached to some other fragments, and still others preserved only the pattern of holes into which the letters had been inserted. Although the majority of letters are missing, scholars can read the inscription based on the pattern of holes in the blocks. 

RECONSTRUCION OF THE CITY GATE
Frederick J. Woodbridge, Jr., the architect of the 1924 excavations, studied each block from the City Gate in detail and drew a reconstruction that is correct in most respects. Many preserved blocks can be identified in his drawing, such as those carved with sea horses (hippocamps) at either end of the frieze near the top of the arch. Woodbridge also drew a more imaginary reconstruction, which includes hypothetical statues in the niches of the piers and buildings inside the City Gate. Modern reconstruction techniques enabled production of the 3-D reconstruction, here superimposed on the actual remains of the City Gate.

Frederick J. Woodbridge Demonstrates the Original Position of Bronze Letters
David M. Robinson
Pisidian Antioch, Turkey, 1924
Black and white photograph
Kelsey Museum, KR107.12

Workers with Block Decorated with a Sea Horse (Hippocamp)
George R. Swain
Pisidian Antioch, Turkey, 1924
Black and white photograph
Kelsey Museum, 5.0212

Remains of the City Gate
Adrian J. Ossi
Pisidian Antioch, Turkey, 2004
Digital photograph
Kelsey Museum, CG

Restored Plan of the City Gate
Frederick J. Woodbridge
Pisidian Antioch, Turkey, 1924
Digital photograph of original ink drawing
Kelsey Museum, AAR-2424

Reconstruction of the City Gate
Frederick J. Woodbridge
Pisidian Antioch, Turkey, 1924-1926
Sepia toned photograph of original ink drawing
Kelsey Museum, AAR-2421

3-D Reconstruction of the City Gate Superimposed on the Ancient Remains
Adrian J. Ossi
Pisidian Antioch, Turkey, 2005
Digitally modified photograph
Kelsey Museum, AJO 5